Rewrite Go: Exporters (#3320)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/go/exporters.md

title: Exporters
aliases: [/docs/instrumentation/go/exporting_data]
weight: 50
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: otlpmetric otlpmetricgrpc otlpmetrichttp otlptrace otlptracegrpc otlptracehttp promhttp stdouttrace
---

{{% docs/instrumentation/exporters-intro go %}}

## Console

> 

Reviewer: I recommend some commentary here about when console export is useful (i.e., primarily during development and local debugging)

Author: PTAL https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3320/commits/a1d044f61ea5c93a6a4e5721a12cf1f3f6b925ae

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/stdout/stdoutmetric"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric"
)

func newExporter() (metric.Exporter, error) {
	return stdoutmetric.New()
}
```

## OTLP

To send trace data to an OTLP endpoint (like the [collector](/docs/collector) or
Jaeger >= v1.35.0) you'll want to configure an OTLP exporter that sends to your
endpoint.

To learn more on how to use the OTLP HTTP exporter, try the
[otel-collector example](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/otel-collector)

### OTLP traces over HTTP

[`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp)
contains an implementation of the OTLP trace exporter using HTTP with binary
protobuf payloads.

Here's how you can create an exporter with default configuration:

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (trace.SpanExporter, error) {
	client := otlptracehttp.NewClient()

> 	return otlptrace.New(ctx, client)

Reviewer 2: Can we just use [`otlptracehttp.New`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace/otlptracehttp#New) here instead?

Reviewer 2: Same for grpc?

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/3320/commits/98ded261e59b5f873809a3ffaef38fad2762abee

contains an implementation of OTLP metrics exporter using HTTP with binary
protobuf payloads.

Here's how you can create an exporter with default configuration:

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetrichttp"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric"
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (metric.Exporter, error) {
	return otlpmetrichttp.New(ctx)
}
```

### OTLP metrics over gRPC (Experimental)

[`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc)
contains an implementation of OTLP trace exporter using gRPC.

Here's how you can create an exporter with default configuration:

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (metric.Exporter, error) {
	return otlpmetricgrpc.New(ctx)
}
```

## Prometheus (Experimental)

[`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/prometheus`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/prometheus)
contains an implementation of Prometheus metrics exporter.

> Here's how you can create an exporter (which is also a metric reader) with

Reviewer 3: well... It isn't technically a metric.Exporter.  I wonder if there is a better way to avoid confusing users here.

Ideas:

* Make all functions "newReader(ctx) (metric.Reader, error).  Push exporters return a newPeriodicReader with the appropriate exporter.
* Change this example to say "Here's how you can create a reader with default configuration:"
* Leave it as-is

Author: I like this idea:

> Make all functions "newReader(ctx) (metric.Reader, error)

Reviewer: I think it's probably fine to leave as is. I expect most end-users won't differentiate too much between the technical definition of a metric exporter and the looser definition of an "exporter". If it's a way to emit data to prometheus then that aligns with the latter definition.

title: Exporters
aliases: [/docs/instrumentation/go/exporting_data]
weight: 50
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: otlpmetric otlpmetricgrpc otlpmetrichttp otlptrace otlptracegrpc otlptracehttp promhttp stdouttrace
---

{{% docs/instrumentation/exporters-intro go %}}

## Console

### Console traces

> [`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/stdout/stdouttrace`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/stdout/stdouttrace)

Author: IMO full package import path should be mentioned at least once.

    "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric"
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (metric.Exporter, error) {
	return otlpmetrichttp.New(ctx)
}
```

### OTLP metrics over gRPC (Experimental)

[`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc)
contains an implementation of OTLP trace exporter using gRPC.

Here's how you can create an exporter with default configuration:

```go
import (
  	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlpmetric/otlpmetricgrpc"
    "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (metric.Exporter, error) {
	return otlpmetricgrpc.New(ctx)
}
```

## Prometheus (Experimental)

[`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/prometheus`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/prometheus)
contains an implementation of Prometheus metrics exporter.

Here's how you can create an exporter (which is also a metric reader) with
default configuration:

```go
import (
  	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlptrace"
  	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/prometheus"

>     "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/metric"

Author: ff250a8f

)

func newExporter(ctx context.Context) (metric.Reader, error) {

> 	client := otlptracegrpc.NewClient()

Author: 🤦

  // prometheus.DefaultRegisterer is used by default
  // so that metrics are available via promhttp.Handler.
	return prometheus.New(ctx, client)
}
```

> To learn more on how to use the Prometheus exporter, try out the

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more on how to use the Prometheus exporter, try the
```

[prometheus example](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go/tree/main/example/prometheus)

## Available packages

> A full list of exporters available can be found in the
> [OpenTelemetry registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=go&component=exporter).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find a full list of available exporters in the
[OpenTelemetry registry](/ecosystem/registry/?language=go&component=exporter).
```
